---
permalink: /1/
---

# Level 1: Saving your work  (Status, Add, Commit, Log, and Checkout)

## Baby Steps

Let's get comfortable using git.

First, try:
`git status`

You should notice that there aren't any changes.

Now create a file, let's call it `cat.txt`

If you run `git status` again, the file should come up
red. This means that there are changes made to the file
that haven't been saved/committed yet. If it doesn't
come up red, be sure to save your changes to the file!

## Adding Changes

Add any extra text to the file you want, and then run:
`git add -A` 
(Add all unsaved changes to what we want to commit.)

`git status` will now show the file in green, meaning that
if we were to commit/save now, all our changes to that
file would be committed.

Let's do that!

Run `git commit -m "Important cat.txt changes"`

`git status` will show nothing, because everything so far has been
committed.

You can also run `git log`, which'll display a list of recent commits.
Your change "Important cat.txt changes" should show up at the top!

## Undo

Now make another change to cat.txt

Let's pretend that the changes are pretty bad. You've poked
something, or your cat ran over your keyboard, and so they
inserted a lot of text all over your beautiful file.

Thankfull, git has a pretty nice way of undoing that quickly!

If you run `git status`, the file should be red (if you accidentally
`git add -A` already, run `git reset HEAD .` to take it out of
consideration.)

You can then run
`git checkout .`

That'll clean up all changes from the local directory down.

If you look at your file again, it'll be its old 
pristine pre-change state!

(You can also undo specific files a la
`git checkout cat.txt`)

# Assignment Checklist

 [ ] Add and commit at least one file!
 
 [ ] Create at least 2 more commits.